Allow checks on a MediaType's sanity  & key-type restrictions (#92)
SleeplessByte/media-types-ruby: README.md

The first two of these methods take in a fixture (as shown below) & store checks you want to carry out when `assert_sane!` gets called. 
If an error gets raised, you will get a list of all the fixtures that failed to meet expections returned to you.

Additionally, the first time the `validate!` method gets called to check a Media Type fixture, the collection of checks queued up by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` for the Media Type in question will get carried out as well.

```Ruby
class AnyType
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'trailervote'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
    FIXTURE
  
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
  end

>   assert_sane!

Author: Might be a stupid question/thought, but the only other use of assert_sane! is in validate! etc. assert_sane is still available for the user to use when developing their own stuff, and I think they might want to use it like this during development of their own stuff. I agree that this shouldn't be in the canonical example for the feature, but perhaps I should explain that there is a use case/ reason to do this? I'm not sure

>   assert_sane!

Reviewer: Why would the user want to crash their app intentionally?

>   assert_sane!

Author: They might want to know, when writing out the media type and thinking they are finished, that it works, so they might want to use assert_sane! in that context to cause the errors to get raised and to get a message in the terminal if they are wrong. So as a development tool- That is how I would use it

>   assert_sane!

Reviewer: In that case you'd still want to run it outside the definition of the validator, otherwise you might not run all asserts.

>   assert_sane!

Author: I'll make that change

end
```
Note that while `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are methods for use inside the validations block, `assert_sane!` is a method that the `AnyType` class itself has access to.

### Assertions for Media Type Checking in Test Suites

> We provide you with the ability to test Media Types you create in the same manner as `assert_sane!` in a Minitest test suite. To do this you must include the `MediaTypes::Assertions` module from the gem, as follows

Reviewer 2: Do I need to require a file?

Author: No, you only need to have installed the gem and include this module - I just checked this in a fake project

Reviewer 2: That's cool! Does it work when minitest is not a dependency of said project?

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39345994/91188104-d2b37980-e6e8-11ea-8844-e87e2148bd07.png)

Yes- this project doesn't have minitest as a dependency, but you can still use the method is you include the relevant module

Author: Lol, the above image is from me commenting out the include bit to check it works as I described

Reviewer 2: Sooooo it doesn't work 😄.

It's common to _not_ autoinclude minitest etc. files, but have it documented how to include it. Or to check if Minitest is defined, and if it is,. to autoinclude it.

Author: Yeah it does

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39345994/91214056-76615180-e70a-11ea-834c-c8530388d2b1.png)

Author: if you comment out line 4 in the above, you lose access to the method
- this project doesn't have minitest and it works

Reviewer: Doesn't it give an argument error instead of it working?

```Ruby
class AnyTest < Minitest::Test
  include MediaTypes::Assertions

>   class AnyType

Reviewer 2: Is it common to define the media type inside the test?

Author: Within the gem itself, this is how we seem to historically have mocked things, but- If  I remember correctly ( I will double check), in TrailerVote, we defined some of the MediaTypes outside the class.

Reviewer 2: What I mean is: when using this library, is it expected to define media types inside tests? Because I doubt that to be the case.

Alternatively, the first time the `validate!` method is called on a Media Type, the collection of assertions stored (defined by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`) for that Media Type are executed. If any of the assertions fail, subsequent calls to `validate!` re-run the assertions. 

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'trailervote'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
    FIXTURE
  
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
  end

>   # Optionally assert that the media type is sane on load. This makes the application crash when this

Reviewer: We don't actually want people to let the application crash when files are evaluated right?

  # file is evaluated. Alternatives include using a _test_ (see below), calling this manually or
  # relying on the program to halt when the media type is used (and invalid).
  assert_sane!
  # place assert_sane! here, after the validations block, if using it as a development tool.
end
```

> **Note**: `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are methods that can _only_ be used inside the `validations` block; `assert_sane!` is a method that the `MyMedia` class itself has access to, and is part of the public API.

Reviewer: What is the `MyMedia` class? Why does only that class have access to it when the next part says it should be part of the public API?

### Assertions for Media Type Checking in Test Suites

> In the context of your tests, we provide the `build_fixture_tests` method,which allows you to run the checks you queue up for a particular `MediaType` within your tests with `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` in a Minitest context. This method is automatically added to the `Minitest::Test`, so If you are already using a Minitest suite, you should gain access to it.

Reviewer: Why would you want to test fixtures? Wouldn't it be more useful to test the media type you created?

(not really clear why I would use this)

Returns a list of all the schemas that are defined.

## Using Assertions in MediaTypes

> When using this library to make your own media types, you can use the methods `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`  to run checks that your new Media Type matches your expectations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using this library to make your own media types, you can use the methods `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` to define checks that your new Media Type matches your expectations.
```

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason that you've written Media Type and not media type or `MediaType`?

> The first two of these methods take in a fixture (as shown below) & store checks you want to carry out when either `assert_sane!` or `assert_media_type` gets called. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These methods take a fixture (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when either `assert_sane!` or `assert_media_type` is called. 
```

Reviewer 2: There are only two methods mentioned above. For legibility, don't use short-hands, simplify tense and redirections.

> `assert_sane!` can be used as a debugging/development tool (as shown below), giving you a convienient way to check that a MediaType you are building is operating as you intend. If an error gets raised, you will get a list of all the fixtures that failed to meet expections returned to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`assert_sane!` can be used as a debugging/development tool (as shown below), giving you a convenient way to check that the MediaType you are building is operating as you intend. It raises with a list of failing fixtures if any of the expectations aren't met. 
```

Reviewer 2: Spelling mistakes.

`assert_sane!` _never_ returns when it fails. It raises an error.

> Alternatively, the first time the `validate!` method gets called to check a Media Type fixture, the collection of checks queued up by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` for the Media Type in question will get carried out as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, the first time the `validate!` method is called on a Media Type, the collection of assertions stored (defined by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`) for that Media Type are executed. If any of the assertions fail, subsequent calls to `validate!` re-run the assertions. 
```

Reviewer 2: Matches wording before, and adds the case on failure.

> ```Ruby

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```ruby
````

class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'trailervote'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
    FIXTURE
  
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
  end

>   assert_sane!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

  # Optionally assert that the media type is sane on load. This makes the application crash when this
  # file is evaluated. Alternatives include using a _test_ (see below), calling this manually or
  # relying on the program to halt when the media type is used (and invalid).
  assert_sane!
```

  # place assert_sane! here, after the validations block, if using it as a development tool.
end
```

> Note that while `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are methods for use inside the validations block, `assert_sane!` is a method that the `MyMedia` class itself has access to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are methods that can _only_ be used inside the `validations` block; `assert_sane!` is a method that the `MyMedia` class itself has access to, and is part of the public API.
```

### Assertions for Media Type Checking in Test Suites

> In the context of your tests, we provide you with the `assert_media_type` method, which acts as a wrapper for `assert_sane!` and allows you to run the checks you queue up for a particular MediaType within your tests, for any MediaType you have defined.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the context of your tests, we provide the `assert_media_type` method, which acts as a wrapper for `assert_sane!` and allows you to run the checks you queue up for a particular `MediaType` within your tests.
```

Reviewer 2: Here you used MediaType, instead of Media Type. It should be consistent through-out the document. My guess is that you meant the "custom klazz", and in that case it should be `MediaType`.

> To do this you must include the `MediaTypes::Assertions` module from the gem, as follows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Include the `MediaTypes::Assertions` module from the gem to use `assert_media_type`:
```

> ```Ruby
> 

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```ruby
````

>   class MyMedia

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
class MyMedia
```

  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'trailervote'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
    FIXTURE

    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
  end
end

class MyMediaTest < Minitest::Test
  include MediaTypes::Assertions

>   def test_MyMedia

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  def test_my_media
```

Returns a list of all the schemas that are defined.

## Ensuring Your MediaTypes Work

### Overview & Rational

It is vital that when using this library, your MediaTypes enforce the specification you actually intend them to, as the rules they _do_ enforce will significantly impact code elsewhere in your codebase. To this end, we provide you with a few avenues to check whether MediaTypes enforce the specifications you actually intend by checking examples of JSON you expect to be complient/non-complient with the specifications you design. These are as follows:

> 1. We provide you with two methods (`assert_pass` and `assert fail`), which enable you to specify JSON fixtures you expect to be complient/non-complient

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be `compliant`?

Reviewer 3: Yes, fixed

> 2. We provide methods to turn those fixtures into tests with the `test_specification` method.

Reviewer: Might be good to add a link here

Reviewer 3: @thexa4 To be specific, a link to the relevant section in this Readme?

Reviewer: yes

3. We automatically check a MediaType's checks defined by (1) the first time it is validated, and throw an error if any fail.

4. We provide you with a way to run the checks carried out by (3) on load, using the method `assert_sane` so that they can be caught then.

These four options are examined in more detail below:

### Media Type Checking in Test Suites

> In the context of your tests, we provide the `test_specification` method,which allows you to run the checks you queue up for a particular `MediaType` within your tests with `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` in a Minitest context. This method is automatically added to the `Minitest::Test`, so If you are already using a Minitest suite, you should gain access to it.

Reviewer: Missing space after comma

Reviewer 3: Good catch, fixed

The example below demonstrates how to use `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` within a MediaType, and how to use the `test_specification` method to generate MiniTest tests from them.

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
    FIXTURE

    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
  end
end

class MyMediaTest < Minitest::Test
  test_specification MyMedia
   # This transforms all your calls to `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` into tests
end
```

> ### Validation Checks

Reviewer: I think headers are supposed to be preceeded by a newline but you might have to check the spec.

Reviewer 3: Yes they do, fixed

The  `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` methods take a JSON string (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out later. The first time the `validate!` method is called on a Media Type, the collection of assertions stored (defined by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`) for that Media Type are executed.

This is done as a last line of defence against introducing faulty MediaTypes into your software. Ideally, you want to carry out these checks on load rather than when your server/project is already up and running, this functionality is provided by the `assert_sane!` method. Which can be called on a particular class

```ruby
  MyMedia.assert_sane!
  # true
```

## Key type validation

Users are provided with the ability to specify the expected type of keys in the media type, by default symbol keys are expected.
This can be set by calling either `expect_symbol_keys` or `expect_string_keys` when defining the MediaType.

```ruby

> class MyMedia

Reviewer: This seems like it's the same example as above, why do we need to repeat it?

Reviewer 3: Agreed this is too much, reduced the example.

1. We provide you with [two methods](README.md#media-type-checking-in-test-suites) (`assert_pass` and `assert fail`), which enable you to specify JSON fixtures you expect to be compliant/non-compliant

2. We provide you with a way to validate those fixtures with the [`assert_mediatype_specification`](README.md#media-type-checking-in-test-suites) method.

3. We automatically check a MediaType's checks defined by (1) the first time it is validated, and throw an error if any fail.

4. We provide you with a way to run the checks carried out by (3) on load, using the method [`assert_sane`](README.md#validation-checks) so that they can be caught then.

These four options are examined in more detail below:

### Media Type Checking in Test Suites

In the context of your tests, we provide the `assert_mediatype_specification` method, which allows you to run the checks you queue up for a particular `MediaType` within your tests with `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` in a Minitest context.
If you are using Minitest you can make `assert_mediatype_specification` available by calling `include MediaTypes::Assertions`.

> 

Author: I don't think we have a test suite thing for when MiniTest is not used, I am not sure if this is a problem - I guess it's annoying, but they are also free to adapt _assert_sane!_ (or whatever it ends up being called upon release) and make their own wrapper if they want to use Rspec or something. Can expanding the test suite capabilities be in another PR? It sounds like the kind of task that wouldn't get neglected/not included in a future upgrade

> 

Reviewer 2: We don't need to support other test suites, but we do need to explain how other people might want to support it.

    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
    FIXTURE

    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
  end
end

class MyMediaTest < Minitest::Test
  include MediaTypes::Assertions

  def test_mediatype_specification
    assert_mediatype_specification MyMedia
  end
end
```

### Validation Checks

The `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` methods take a JSON string (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out later. The first time the `validate!` method is called on a Media Type, the collection of assertions stored (defined by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`) for that Media Type are executed.

This is done as a last line of defence against introducing faulty MediaTypes into your software. Ideally, you want to carry out these checks on load rather than when your server/project is already up and running, this functionality is provided by the `assert_sane!` method. Which can be called on a particular class

```ruby

>   MyMedia.assert_sane!

Reviewer: Why do we need both `assert_sane!` and `assert_mediatype_specification`?

Reviewer 3: `assert_mediatype_specification` is used for testing purposes, it wraps `assert_sane!` and handles the possible outcomes to make the test pass or fail accordingly.

```ruby
  class MyMedia
    include MediaTypes::Dsl

    expect_string_keys

    def self.organisation
      'acme'
    end

    use_name 'test'

    validations do
      # default attribute type is a Hash object
      attribute :foo, optional: true do
        attribute :bar, Numeric

        # This passes, since in this context we require for the input to contain an Numeric attribute "bar"
        assert_pass '{"bar": 42}'
      end
      attribute :rep, Numeric
      
      # This passes, since the attribute "foo" is optional. And we don't need to test it again, since we gave it its own seperate test
      assert_pass '{"rep": 42}'
    end
  end
```

## Key type validation

Users are provided with the ability to specify the expected type of keys in the media type, by default symbol keys are expected.
This can be set by calling either `expect_symbol_keys` or `expect_string_keys` when defining the MediaType.

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'
  # Expect keys to be strings
  expect_string_keys

  validations do
    any Numeric
  end

>   assert_sane!

Reviewer: Why do we need this line in the example?

Reviewer 3: We don't :) Removing

end
```

### Inheriting key type expectations

Key type expectations can also be set at the module level, each MediaType within this module will inherit the expectation set by that module.

```ruby
module Acme
  expect_string_keys

  # The MyMedia class will be expecting string keys, as inherited from the Acme module.
  class MyMedia
    include MediaTypes::Dsl

    def self.organisation
      'acme'
    end

    use_name 'test'

    validations do
      any Numeric
    end
  end

  # This behaviour can be overridden inside the MediaType class
  class MySecondMedia
    include MediaTypes::Dsl

    def self.organisation
      'acme'
    end

    use_name 'test2'
    # Override parent module key type expectation
    expect_symbol_keys

    validations do
      any Numeric
    end
  end
end
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe it would be useful to show that it fails to validate if you validate json parsed with the parser set to strings?

Author: I am not sure what you are trying to ask about

Reviewer 4: Louis says he updated it

Reviewer 2: This is not resolved?

Reviewer 3: The examples were in a section below, but moved a relevant example up here.

Returns a list of all the schemas that are defined.

## Using Assertions in MediaTypes

When using this library to make your own media types, you can use the methods `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` to define checks that your new Media Type matches your expectations.

> These methods take a fixture (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when either `assert_sane!` is called. 

Author: I fused this with the previous paragraph (not pushed yet)  but this is what It could say, if this works

When using this library to make your own media types, you can use the methods `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` to define checks that your new Media Type matches your expectations. These methods take a json string (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when  `assert_sane!` is called.

> These methods take a fixture (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when either `assert_sane!` is called. 

Reviewer: That seems more readable, do we explain elsewhere why you want to use this?

> These methods take a fixture (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when either `assert_sane!` is called. 

Author: Do you mean why we want to use assert_pass/ assert_fail? or why we use assert_sane?

Assert_sane is explained by the mechanism used here. I don't think we detail why `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are present in the library.  I suppose the reason is we are providing a way to prevent users from writing mediaType definitions with consequences they do not really want. I kind of thing the code expresses this purpose by itself? Do you think that a prose explanationation is going to help? I am worried that over-explaining rather than letting the code examples show what you _can do_ is going to muddy the waters? What do you think

> These methods take a fixture (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when either `assert_sane!` is called. 

Reviewer: My concern is that developers that want to use our library likely aren't very interested in how the mechanism works, they are more likely to look for information on how using this feature might benefit them.

> These methods take a fixture (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out when either `assert_sane!` is called. 

Reviewer 2: It might be okay to document this somewhere for people to read, but the code could be a good place for that. I agree that as a consumer I'd not be interested that much in the inner workings.

> `assert_sane!` can be used as a debugging/development tool (as shown below), giving you a convenient way to check that the MediaType you are building is operating as you intend. It raises with a list of failing fixtures if any of the expectations aren't met. 

Author: I think we don't really use assert_sane! as something you keep in your mediatypes, but it's important in the mechanism for the new features. I wanted to keep it exposed to end users as a debugging tool, so they can slot it in as described if they want. but it can even be hidden from them.

> `assert_sane!` can be used as a debugging/development tool (as shown below), giving you a convenient way to check that the MediaType you are building is operating as you intend. It raises with a list of failing fixtures if any of the expectations aren't met. 

Reviewer: It seems pretty essential to keep it, otherwise you can't do preflight checks.

> `assert_sane!` can be used as a debugging/development tool (as shown below), giving you a convenient way to check that the MediaType you are building is operating as you intend. It raises with a list of failing fixtures if any of the expectations aren't met. 

Author: Yes, I think I should actually remove the statement about it being used as a debugging tool, that might be too specific to me and my experience, and instead write that it's for testing mediatypes before you use them.

> Alternatively, the first time the `validate!` method is called on a Media Type, the collection of assertions stored (defined by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`) for that Media Type are executed. If any of the assertions fail, subsequent calls to `validate!` re-run the assertions. 

Author: No, I removed that now

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { foo: 42, bar: 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{foo: 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { foo: { bar: "string" } }
    FIXTURE
  
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{foo: {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{foo: null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{foo: [42]}'
  end

  # Optionally assert that the media type is sane on load. This makes the application raise an error when the arguments of assert_pass/assert_fail are not in line with your MediaType definition.
  # Alternatives include using a _test_ (see below), calling this manually or
  # relying on the program to halt when the media type is used (and invalid).

>   assert_sane!

Author: The way I was using this was when I was building MediaTypes and wanted to check that the mediatype I had just written a definition for worked, I used assert_sane! in this way to run the asserts while I was coding. I think you have to put it inside the class because it is an instance method (it's primary use is in validations)

>   assert_sane!

Reviewer: Wouldn't `MyValidator.assert_sane!` work as well? Seems like it would be harder to call the function when the validator is not yet fully set up.

>   assert_sane!

Author: That's true, but I don't know when a user would want to call assert_sane! outside of the media_type definition, all of our use cases are in the mechanisms for running the checks.

I can see where you are coming from and will change to make that shown, but this isn't what we actually were writing when building this feature. you suggest after the MT definition is closed, and probably makes more sense semantically. 

Also maybe they would like to place the assert_sane! methods all in one place (perhaps a method that gets called in their own workflow) so writing it like you suggest actually makes more sense

  # place assert_sane! here, after the validations block, if using it as a development tool.
end
```

> **Note**: `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are methods that can _only_ be used inside the `validations` block; while `assert_sane!` is part of the public MediaTypes API.

Author: Yes, I think what we are trying to get across here is that assert_pass and assert_fail only really make sense when used inside a MT definition.

> **Note**: `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` are methods that can _only_ be used inside the `validations` block; while `assert_sane!` is part of the public MediaTypes API.

Author: I just removed this note after thinking about it for a while, because it is rendered moot by the change instigated by the discussion about where to call `assert_sane!` above

### Assertions for Media Type Checking in Test Suites

In the context of your tests, we provide the `test_specification` method,which allows you to run the checks you queue up for a particular `MediaType` within your tests with `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` in a Minitest context. This method is automatically added to the `Minitest::Test`, so If you are already using a Minitest suite, you should gain access to it.

```ruby

> class MyMedia

Author: Yeah I think it's muddying the waters too. Removed

  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { foo: 42, bar: 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{foo: 42}'
    # Any also means none, there are no required keys
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { foo: { bar: "string" } }
    FIXTURE

    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
    assert_fail '{foo: {}}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
    assert_fail '{foo: null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{foo: [42]}'
  end
end

class MyMediaTest < Minitest::Test
  test_specification MyMedia
   # This transforms all your calls to `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` into tests
end
```

## Key type validation

> Users are provided with the ability to specify the expected type of keys in the media type, by default symbol keys are expected.

Author: I am not confident about why anymore. just that it caused bugs when we didn't set a preference/rule-set ourseleves. I think we should explain this, not sure what a good way to get this across would be

This can be set by calling either `expect_symbol_keys` or `expect_string_keys` when defining the MediaType.

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'
  # Expect keys to be strings
  expect_string_keys

  validations do
    any Numeric

    # Only pass keys as strings
    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
    assert_pass '{}'

    # Using symbol keys will result in failed validation
    assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
    { foo: 42, bar: 43 }
    FIXTURE
  end

  assert_sane!
end
```

### Inheriting key type expectations

> Key type expectations can also be set at the module level, each MediaType within this module will inherit the expectation set by that module.

Reviewer 3: Setting the key type expectation in the module is the first example, then it is shown how to override that by setting it within a MediaType class

```ruby
module Acme

>   expect_string_keys

Author: Fixed

Returns a list of all the schemas that are defined.

## Ensuring Your MediaTypes Work

### Overview & Rationale

> 

Reviewer 2: This was marked as resolved but it isn't.

> If the MediaTypes you create enforce a specification you _do not expect them to_ it will cause problems that will be very difficult to fix, as other code which utilises 

Reviewer: Missing text?

Reviewer 4: Updated

The faulty MediaType definition will start to depend on it. For example,Consider what would happen if you release a MediaType which defines an attribute `foo` to be a `string`, and run a server which enforces such a specification. Later, you realise you _actually_ wanted `foo` to be `Numeric`, What can you do?

> Well, during this time, your users started to write code which conformed to the specification outlined by the faulty MediaType. So, it's going to be extreamly difficult to revert your mistake. 

Reviewer: Typo

Reviewer 4: Updated

> For this reason,it is vital that when using this library, your MediaTypes enforce the _correct_ specification, as the rules they enforce will significantly impact code elsewhere in your codebase. To this end, we provide you with a few avenues to check whether MediaTypes enforce the specifications you actually intend by checking examples of JSON you expect to be compliant/non-compliant with the specifications you design. These are as follows:

Author: If the MediaTypes you create enforce a specification you _do not expect them to_, it will cause problems that will be very difficult to fix, as other code, which utilises your MediaType, would break when you change the specification. This is because the faulty MediaType definition will start to make other code dependent on the specification it defined.

For example, consider what would happen if you release a MediaType which defines an attribute `foo` to be a `String`, and run a server which define such a specification. Later, you realise you _actually_ wanted `foo` to be `Numeric`. What can you do?

Well, during this time, other people started to write code which conformed to the specification defined by the faulty MediaType. So, it's going to be extremely difficult to revert your mistake.

For this reason, it is vital that, when using this library, your MediaTypes define the _correct_ specification.

To this end, we provide you with a few avenues to check whether MediaTypes define the specifications you actually intend by checking examples of JSON you expect to be compliant/non-compliant with the MediaType definitions you write out.

> For this reason,it is vital that when using this library, your MediaTypes enforce the _correct_ specification, as the rules they enforce will significantly impact code elsewhere in your codebase. To this end, we provide you with a few avenues to check whether MediaTypes enforce the specifications you actually intend by checking examples of JSON you expect to be compliant/non-compliant with the specifications you design. These are as follows:

Author: I wrote the snippet above to try and hit those three points

1. The library provides you with [two methods](README.md#media-type-checking-in-test-suites) (`assert_pass` and `assert_fail`), which allow specifying JSON fixtures that are expected to be compliant (`assert_pass`) or non-compliant (`assert_fail`).

2. The library provides you with a way to validate those fixtures with the [`assert_mediatype_specification`](README.md#media-type-checking-in-test-suites) method.

> 3. The library automatically check a MediaType's checks defined by (1) the first time it is validated, and throw an error if any fail.

Reviewer: What does it mean when you check checks?

Reviewer 4: Updated

> 4. The library provides you with a way to run the checks carried out by (3) on load, using the method [`assert_sane`](README.md#validation-checks) so that your server will not run should any of the checks show a MediaType in your code is faulty.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be `assert_sane!`?

Reviewer 4: Updated

These four options are examined in more detail below.

### Media Type Checking in Test Suites

> The library provides the `assert_mediatype_specification` method, which allows running the checks for a particular `MediaType` within Minitest with `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`. In order to use `assert_mediatype_specification`, include the following module:

Reviewer: Where should you include this?

Reviewer 4: Updated

```ruby
include MediaTypes::Assertions
```

> The example below demonstrates how to use `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` within a MediaType, and how to use the `assert_mediatype_specification` method in MiniTest tests to validate them.

Reviewer: Wasn't this renamed?

Reviewer 4: Updated

4. The library provides a way to run the checks carried out by (3) on load, using the method [`assert_sane!`](README.md#validation-checks) so that an application will not run if any of the MediaType's checks don't pass.

These four options are examined in detail below.

### MediaType Checking in Test Suites

The library provides the `assert_mediatype` method, which allows running the checks for a particular `MediaType` within Minitest with `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`.
If you are using Minitest you can make `assert_mediatype` available by calling `include MediaTypes::Testing::Assertions` in the test class (e.g. `Minitest::Runnable`):

```ruby
module Minitest
  class Test < Minitest::Runnable
    include MediaTypes::Testing::Assertions
  end
end
```

The example below demonstrates how to use `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` within a MediaType, and how to use the `assert_mediatype` method in MiniTest tests to validate them.

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do
    any Numeric

    assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
    { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
    FIXTURE

    assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'

>     # "Any" means there are no required keys, so having no keys should also pass

Reviewer 4: Code block updated

    assert_pass '{}'

    # Using "Any" this MediaType doesn't care what key names you use,

>     # but, it does care that those keys point to a Numeric value, 

Reviewer 4: Code block updated

>     # as indicated by "Numeric" at the top of the block

Reviewer 4: Code block updated

      mediatype.assert_sane!
      assert mediatype.media_type_validations.scheme.asserted_sane?
    rescue MediaTypes::AssertionError => e
      flunk e.message
    end
  end
```

### Validation Checks

The `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` methods take a JSON string (as shown below). The first time the `validate!` method is called on a MediaType, the assertions for that media type are run.
This is done as a last line of defence against introducing faulty MediaTypes into your software. Ideally, you want to carry out these checks on load rather than on a running application. This functionality is provided by the `assert_sane!` method, which can be called on a particular MediaType:

```ruby
MyMedia.assert_sane!
# true
```

### Intermediate Checks

The fixtures provided to the `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` methods are evaluated within the context of the block they are placed in. It's therefore possible to write a test for a (complex) optional attribute, without that test cluttering the fixtures for the entire mediatype.

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

  expect_string_keys

  def self.organisation
    'acme'
  end

  use_name 'test'

  validations do

>     # default attribute type is a Hash

Reviewer 4: Updated the README to use Hash explicitly. This means I also updated when the error is thrown that prevents a user from providing both a type and a block to the rule. Hash is now allowed as a type, and the error message is updated to indicate that problems occur when you try to mix a block and a non-hash type, which is closer in describing the original problem. Added bonus of having less chance to break existing code.

    attribute :foo, optional: true do
      attribute :bar, Numeric

      # This passes, since in this context the "bar" key is required to have a Numeric value. 
      assert_pass '{"bar": 42}'
    end
    attribute :rep, Numeric

    # This passes, since the attribute "foo" is optional.
    assert_pass '{"rep": 42}'
  end
end
```

## Key Type Validation

> When interacting with Ruby objects defined by your MediaType, you want to avoid having them looking up a value and getting `nil`, just because they used the wrong key type. To this end, the library provides the ability to specify the expected type of keys in a MediaType; by default symbol keys are expected.

Reviewer 3: Updated

Returns a list of all the schemas that are defined.

## Using Assertions in MediaTypes

When using this library to make your own media types, you can use the methods `assert_pass`, `assert_fail` and `execute_assertions(MediaType)` to run checks that your new Media type matches your expectations.

The first two of these methods take in a fixture (as shown below) & store checks you want to carry out when `execute_assertions(MediaType)`  gets called. 
If an error gets raised, you will get a list of all the fixtures that failed to meet expections returned to you.

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing information when execute_assertions is called, if ever. Manual is clear, but if not called manual, what happens?

Author: Just updated the readme

```ruby

>       class AnyType

Reviewer 2: Can we not indent this?

        include MediaTypes::Dsl

        def self.organisation
          'trailervote'
        end

        use_name 'test'

        validations do
          any Numeric

          assert_pass <<-FIXTURE
          { "foo": 42, "bar": 43 }
          FIXTURE

          assert_pass '{"foo": 42}'
          # Any also means none, there are no required keys
          assert_pass '{}'

          # Expects any value to be a Numeric, not a Hash
          assert_fail <<-FIXTURE
          { "foo": { "bar": "string" } }
          FIXTURE
        
          # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a Hash
          assert_fail '{"foo": {}}'
          # Expects any value to be Numeric, not a NilClass
          assert_fail '{"foo": null}'
          # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
          assert_fail '{"foo": [42]}'
         

>           execute_assertions(AnyType)

Reviewer 2: I think we really need to give the user of the library a chance to call this _whenever_ they want. So this works, but makes the file crash _on load_, which isn't ideal, because it may not be when the server starts. Instead, let's define an extra method on the generated `AnyType`, like `#assert_sane!`, which basically does: `execute_assertions(self.class)`.

Then, we **automatically** call this function on the first `validate!`, if it has not ran yet.
Thirdly, add a custom `assert_media_type AnyType` function, which runs all the asserts in a minitest context.

Ideally, we would want a test to be generated dynamically, but if `#assert_sane!` is implemented correctly, and `assert_media_type Type` works, a media type test for a library could look like:

```ruby
class MyMediaTypeTest < BaseTest

  [My, Media, Type, Array].each do |type|
    define_method "test_#{type.name}_media_type_sanity" do
      assert_media_type type
    end
  end
end
```

If this is the case, we can just document it and not generate anything, and/or supply `rails generator` for this.

Author: Do you mean write a method called assert_sane! in the MediaTypes::Dsl module? Because giving AnyType would mean that we would have to hard code the same method in every fixture/media_type we create. I don't fully understand the advantage of this if assert_sane! and execute_assertions are going to contain the same logic? I think I am missing something that you are seeing.
Perhaps you mean that the execute_assertions method is fine, but it's not good to actually have it placed so that it runs in the class, because then it will run on load, instead you want a method that kind of wraps around this, and lets users add logic for when the asserts should be executed??
There is a small problem with using self.class (which is why I didn't use it for execute_assertions), which is that at the location the asserts are called , self refers to an instance of Validations. This is why I think the class has to be explicitly given to the Assert function (AnyType) for instance.

Author: Ah, perhaps you mean that we want a method `assert_sane!` that is going to be callable from where `execute_assertions` goes now, but automatically would know what the class is

Reviewer 2: `assert_sane!` should be available on _any_ media type, and shouldn't be duplicated by a user using our library. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to _automatically_ call it (or it would break all the time if a user had not defined it themselves). 

> Perhaps you mean that the execute_assertions method is fine, but it's not good to actually have it placed so that it runs in the class, because then it will run on load, instead you want a method that kind of wraps around this, and lets users add logic for when the asserts should be executed??

Right now it runs on file load, which, as written, is probably not what we want.

> self refers to an instance of Validations.

You need to traverse the _ancestors_ until you get to the media type class itself.

> Ah, perhaps you mean that we want a method assert_sane! that is going to be callable from where execute_assertions goes now, but automatically would know what the class is

I definitely want `assert_sane!` to know what class it is; `execute_assertions` should probably know which class it is as well -- but implement it as you see fit.

    assert_fail '{foo: null}'
    # Expects any value to be Numeric, not Array
    assert_fail '{foo: [42]}'
  end
end

class MyMediaTest < Minitest::Test
  test_specification MyMedia
   # This transforms all your calls to `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` into tests
end
```
### Validation Checks

The  `assert_pass` and `assert_fail` methods take a JSON string (as shown below) and store assertions to be carried out later. The first time the `validate!` method is called on a Media Type, the collection of assertions stored (defined by `assert_pass` and `assert_fail`) for that Media Type are executed.

This is done as a last line of defence against introducing faulty MediaTypes into your software. Ideally, you want to carry out these checks on load rather than when your server/project is already up and running, this functionality is provided by the `assert_sane!` method.

## Key type validation

Users are provided with the ability to specify the expected type of keys in the media type, by default symbol keys are expected.
This can be set by calling either `expect_symbol_keys` or `expect_string_keys` when defining the MediaType.

```ruby
class MyMedia
  include MediaTypes::Dsl

> U

Reviewer 3: U?

Reviewer 3: Fixed
